OSCAR Human Interface Guideline
===============================


Principles
----------

* Consistent Look And Feel Throughout
* Avoid Popups where possible
* Avoid Adobe Flash
* Avoid Right Click Context menus 
* Should be usable on a tablet  (less of a requirement for administrative tasks)
* Should be responsive and take advantage of larger screen sizes.
* Lists should utilize incremental loading
* Components should be embeddable 

Colour Usage
------------
Historically Oscar has used colour extensively to convey meaning to the end user. Unfortantely this has been over used and needs to be consolidated to 4 to 6 colours.

* Red   - signifies a major abnormality that the user should be aware of
* Orange - signifies a warning that there is something to deal with but doesn't require imediate attention
* Yellow - signifies a recommendation. eg it's recommended to measure bp every 3-6m and it's been 4m since the last measurement
* Blue - clickable link
* Green - signifies success or positive

Right now each technology in the echart gets a different colour. And the choice of colours has run out. One idea is to change all the technology based colour coding to a simpler system.

* Incoming Document Colour - Documents recieved by the system should have a colour
* Outgoing Document Colour - Documents generated by the system should have a colour 




Screen Types
------------

###Appointment Screen. / Dashboard Screen

The common screen every user gets after logging in. Should be configurable by role and user. 

### Patient Context Screens (Prevention,Rx,Allergies,Documents,measurements)

Patient Context Screens should have a common header bar containing the patient identifiable information.

####Sub types:

  * single document view (lab,document,form,eform)

  * group document view (Document list,Consultation,tickler)

  * mini app (Rx,Prevention,Billing,flowsheet)

  * small popup for info ie schedule appt. /search for patient.

  * echart ( how does an echart fit in? )

  * master demo

### Multi patient Action Screens(Consultation mgmt, Billing Claim mgmt, Search)

Two Column Layout.  Left side listing of objects (ie. consults, bills,messages,etc) with content in right side pane. Right side pane could have two different types of views. 

### Reports ( EMR Usage Report ,visit report, age sex report)

Reports are to live in the right side pane of an admin window.

### Administrative Screens (Prefs,Admin,Report)

Two column layout.  Left side menu with content in right side pane.



Components
-----------------------

Please note, this section will cover which Twitter Bootstrap components (http://twitter.github.io/bootstrap/components.html#navs) we endorse. For example, Calendar selection tools to use and how to use it, or Live action search functions. This content will soon be added, and added iteratively to the guidelines based on components selected for final prototypes that are to be incorporated in the final product design